Filename: GUItest-instructions.txt
Date Created: July 15, 2008
Purpose: Instructions for manual test of PerfTrack GUI
Last Updated: August 15, 2013

IMPORTANT FILES
1.   GUItest-slides.pdf        -- This file shows screenshots of the GUI tests.

2.   GUItest-instructions.txt  -- The file you are reading.

3.   The database files used in these tests are located in the
/perftrack/trunk/tests/GUI/data directory. The data directory contains a sub-
directory for each database that PerfTrack supports:
    Database Directory:   Files:
    Oracle                The test files have not been created

    PostgreSQL            SC07_milcdemodata_partialCPRs-2013-08-15.dmp
                          SC07_milcdemodata_partialCPRs.dmp
                          SC07_milcdemodata.dmp

    MySQL                 SC07_milcdemodata_partialCPRs.sql
 

INSTRUCTIONS
1.   Create an empty database.

2.   Restore the database using the partialCPRs data file:

     Oracle Restore:
        *** Not completed ***

     PostgreSQL Restore:
        pg_restore -d databaseName --clean -v restoreFileName
        example: 
           pg_restore -d ptrac_test --clean -v SC07_milcdemodata_partialCPRs-2013-08-15.dmp 
     MySQL Restore:    
        mysql -D databaseName < SC07_milcdemodata_partialCPRs.sql
		example:
			mysql -D ptrac_test < SC07_milcdemodata_partialCPRs.sql

3.   Start the  PerfTrack  GUI: type 'perftrack' in a terminal session (make
     sure your PATH and other environment settings are configured for 
     PerfTrack).

4.   The following instructions correspond to pages in GUItest-Slides.pdf:
PAGE  1
     Enter appropriate login information into the Open Database Connection
     form.  If you are running the GUI locally and connecting to a remote
     database, you will need to click on the "Remote host settings" button and
     enter the appropriate remote connection data.

PAGE  2 
     Select the grid|machine|node resource type from the "Select Resource Type"
     drop down list.

PAGE  3
     Click on the Question Mark icon labeled "Show resource information".
     Highlight the first resource - jacn001.
     The attribute/value data should appear in the upper section of the 
     "Resource Information" form.
     Verify that the attributes and values match those shown.
     Close the "Resource Information" form. 

PAGE  4 
     Select the fileSystem|device resource type from the "Select Resource Type"
     drop down list.

PAGE  5 
     Highlight the resource named "scratch".
     The attribute/value data should appear in the upper section of the
     "Resource Information" form.
     Verify that the attributes and values match those shown.       
     Close the "Resource Information" form.

PAGE  6 
     Select the submission resource type from the "Select Resource Type"
     drop down list.

PAGE  7 
     Highlight the resource named "submission-159".
     The attribute/value data should appear in the upper section of the 
     "Resource Information" form.
     Verify
     Close the "Resource Information" form.

PAGE  8 
     Select the execution resource type from the "Select Resource Type"
     drop down list.

PAGE  9 
     Highlight the resource named "PT.su3_rmd-158".
     The attribute/value data should appear in the upper section of the 
     "Resource Information" form.
     Verify that the attributes and values match those shown.
     Below the attribute/value data, the execution resources should appear.
     Verify that the Resource/Value data matches those shown.

PAGE 10
     Use the vertical scroll bar in the Attribute/Value window to scroll to
     bottom of the listing.
     Verify that the attributes and values match those shown.
     Close the "Resource Information" form.

PAGE 11
     Click the Question Mark icon labeled "Show resource information"
     Highlight the execution resource named "PT.su3_rmd-158".
     Click the "Add to Selection Parameters" button.
     The execution resource should appear in the "Selection Parameters" window.
     Verify that the Relatives, Type, Value, and Count match those shown.
     Verify that the count of "Items matching all parameters:" matches
     the count shown.
     Click the "Get Data" button.
     
PAGE 12
     The "PerfTrack" data sheet form should appear.
     Verify that the resource in the "Selection Parameters" window matches the
     one shown.
     Verify that the rows, columns, and values match those shown.
     Click on the "Add display parameters" icon.
 
PAGE 13
     Select the time|interval resource from the "Resources" window, and Click
     on the "Add Highlighted Resources" button.
     The resource should appear in the "Selected Resources" window.  The
     "Retrieved" check box should be unchecked.
     Click on the "Get Data" button.
     The "Retrieved" check box should now be checked.
     Close the "Add Data Columns" form.
    
PAGE 14
     The new column "time|interval" should appear in the data table on the 
     "PerfTrack" data sheet form.
     Verify that the values in the new column match those shown.

PAGE 15
     In the "PerfTrack" data sheet form, select the two fields in the "values" 
     column that have a "metric" value of "Time".  To select the second value, 
     use the ctrl keyboard key while clicking on the second value.

PAGE 16
     Click on the "Combine performance results" icon.
     In the "Select Operator" dialog box, select "sum" from the drop-down list.
     Click the "OK" button.

PAGE 17
     The "Combined Performance Results" form should appear.
     Verify that the Operator Name, the Value, the Metrics Combined, and the 
     Number of Values Combined match those shown.
     Enter (or select from the drop-down list if listed) the Metric Name and 
     Units as shown.
     Enter the label as shown.
     Click the "Add to Data Sheet" button.
     Close the "Combined Performance Results" form by clicking the X in the
     upper right corner.

PAGE 18
     In the "PerfTrack" data sheet form, verify that the new row appears as
     shown. The new row should have a value in its "label" field.
     Click on the "saved" field of the new row (the value should be 0).
     Click the "Save to Database" button.
     The value in the "saved" field should now be 1.
     Click the "New query" icon.

PAGE 19
     In the "Select Data" form, highlight the resource that appears in the 
     "Selection Parameters" window.
     Click the "Clear Highlighted Parameters" button.
     The "Selection Parameters" window should now be empty.
     Highlight the second execution resource, as shown.
     Click the "Add to Selection Parameters" button.

PAGE 20
     Select the metric resource type from the from the "Select Resource Type"
     drop down list.

PAGE 21
     Select the resource named "Time" of type "metric" as shown.
     Click the "Add to Selection Parameters" button.
     Verify that the new resource appears in the "Selection Parameters" window
     and that Relatives, Type, Value, and Count match those shown.
     Verify that the count of "Items matching all parameters:" matches 
     the count shown. 
     Click the "Combine Data" button.

PAGE 22
     In the "Select Operator" dialog box, select "sum" from the drop-down list.
     Click the "OK" button. 

PAGE 23 
     A second tab, labeled "Result 2" should appear in the "Combined 
     Performance Results" form.
     Verify that the Operator Name, the Value, the Metrics Combined, and the
     Number of Values Combined match those shown.
     Enter (or select from the drop-down list if listed) the Metric Name and
     Units as shown.
     Enter the label as shown.
     Click the "Add to Data Sheet" button.
     Close the "Combined Performance Results" form by clicking the X in the
     upper right corner.     

PAGE 24
     In the "PerfTrack" data sheet form, verify that the new row appears as
     shown. The new row should have a value in its "label" field.

PAGE 25
     Click on the "saved" field of the new row (the value should be 0).
     Click the "Save to Database" button.
     The value in the "saved" field should now be 1.
     Click the "New query" icon.

PAGE 26
     In the "Select Data" form, remove the two resources that appear in the 
     "Selection Parameters" window by highlighting each resource and then 
     clicking the "Clear Highlighted Parameters" button.
     In the Performance Result Label window, select all 8 labels. To continue 
     to select labels, use the ctrl keyboard key while clicking each label.
     Click the "Get Data" button.

PAGE 27
     Select the "value" column in the table that appears in the "PerfTrack"
     data sheet form.

PAGE 28
     Click on the "Plot data" icon.
     Select "label" from the "X Axis column" drop-down list.
     Select "metric" from the "Data label column" drop-down list.
     Click on the "Create Plot" button.

PAGE 29
     A bar chart should appear.
     Verify that the bars, values, and labels match those shown.


UNIT TESTING
The GUI also includes a unit test framework for the DataAccess class.
To run the unit tests a new build of the GUI needs to be done.

BUILD INSTRUCTIONS
In the project's trunk directory execute the following commands:
1. make clean
2. make test

RUN INSTRUCTIONS
Run the unit tests by:
1. Execute the following command:
	perftrack
2. In the Open Database Connection window enter the necessary database information.
3. Click on the CSonnect button.
4. At the end of the unit test output verify that all the tests passed.



                           ---- END OF GUI TEST ----
